#summary Basic how-to on PROMNeT++, mainly for researchers.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Introduction =

If you're a researcher (or perhaps my internship's supervisor https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/smiley-face-md-16px.png), then you might not care about OMNeT++ at all, but are interested instead in either analyzing how PROMNeT++ generates code and/or want to reuse said code. This is the case for a number of researchers out there, who would like to run the code in real-time systems.

This Wiki page is to be regarded as a guide to perform a PROMELA to C++ translation via the command line, *but it will not make use of OMNeT++ at all.*

= Prerequisites for this Workflow =

  * PROMNeT++ requires Java 6 or higher to function. Install a JRE on your system, if none is present.
  * PROMNeT++ (its JAR file and any other files that come with its standard distribution) must have been extracted to a directory of your choice; this guide will assume _C:\promnetpp_ as said directory.
    * If you haven't done so already, head over to the <a href="https://code.google.com/p/promnetpp/downloads/list">_Downloads_</a> page and download the latest PROMNeT++ release (PROMNeT++ Alpha 3 as of this guide's time of writing).
    * The screenshot below illustrates the contents of PROMNeT++'s standard distribution.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/Distribution1.png
  * <a href="http://spinroot.com/">Spin</a> must have been compiled from source (where applicable) and installed to a directory of your choice. The _default-configuration.xml_ file that's packaged with PROMNeT++ assumes that Spin is installed under _C:/spin_, which is a Windows directory. However, since PROMNeT++ is cross-platform (as is Spin), Linux and OS X users can also use their directory of choice.
    * This guide covers how this configuration file should be edited in the next section.

= Steps =

  # Assuming PROMNeT++ has been extracted to a directory of your choice, as per the above prerequisites, you (the user) must, first and foremost, _edit the default-configuration.xml file that's packaged with the distribution_, by using a text editor. We'll be editing the option named "spinHome", so that PROMNeT++ knows where to find Spin (for verification purposes).
    * There should be a line in the configuration file similar to
{{{
<simpleOption name="spinHome" value="C:/spin" />
}}}
    * The rule of thumb is: *"spinHome" must point to the directory where Spin is installed, and in particular, the Spin executable, regardless of whether said executable was obtained by compiling Spin from source or not.*
    * If you're using Linux or OS X, for example, it could look something like this:
{{{
<simpleOption name="spinHome" value="/Users/yourusername/Spin" />
}}}
    * Furthermore, *it is important that the value does not contain a trailing forward slash ("/")*, which means:
      * Wrong!
{{{
<simpleOption name="spinHome" value="/Users/yourusername/Spin/" />
}}}
      * Right!
{{{
<simpleOption name="spinHome" value="/Users/yourusername/Spin" />
}}}
    * Remember to save any changes to the file when done.
  # Once you have completed the above step, you must then choose a directory for both your PROMELA model and your translated files. This can be any directory of your choice, _just as long as you have the adequate permissions to read from and write files to that directory_. We will refer to this directory as the *PROMNeT++ workspace*, or *workspace* for short. For this guide, I am using a folder called "my promnetpp workspace" under my C: drive, in Windows (i.e. C:\my promnetpp workspace).<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/MyPromnetppWorkspaceEmpty.png
  # Copy your PROMELA model and the _default-configuration.xml_ file that comes with PROMNeT++ to the workspace. We'll be using the _!NewOneThirdRule.pml_ model packaged with the distribution.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/MyPromnetppWorkspace.png
  # Open a command prompt/shell/terminal at the workspace. In Windows Vista and above, this can be easily done by holding down either of the _Shift_ keys and choosing the _Open command window here_ option.
    * You may also do this in Windows XP, but it requires the installation of a _Command Prompt Here_ shortcut/powertoy.
    * Similar shortcuts exist for Linux and OS X, but under the name _Open terminal here_ instead.
    * Alternatively, you may open a terminal yourself and manually navigate to the workspace directory via multiple "cd" commands.
  # Once your current directory is set to your workspace's directory, type in (or copy and paste) the following commands, altering them accordingly when necessary:
    * For Windows users:
{{{
set PROMNETPP_HOME=C:\promnetpp
java -enableassertions -jar "%PROMNETPP_HOME%\promnetpp.jar" NewOneThirdRule.pml
}}}
    * For Linux/OS X users:
{{{
export PROMNETPP_HOME=/Users/yourusername/promnetpp
java -enableassertions -jar $PROMNETPP_HOME/promnetpp.jar NewOneThirdRule.pml
}}}
    * Note that the _-enableassertions_ (or _-ea_) switch _must be present_, as PROMNeT++ uses Java assert statements at several points during execution.
  # Wait for the tool to finish its verification/translation procedure.
  # If no errors occurred, you should now be in possession of the generated source code files, as illustrated in the screenshot below.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/MyPromnetppWorkspaceFull.png

= Final remarks/Troubleshooting =

  * If the verification/translation procedure did not complete without errors, paying close attention to PROMNeT++'s output should help you correct the problem(s). If not, PROMNeT++ also keeps a log file, named _promnetpp-log.xml_, which is also useful for troubleshooting purposes.
  * *It is entirely up to you, the user, to determine how you will use the generated source code files.* Once you're in possession of them, you're free to look at, or even copy portions of the code for your own personal use.