#summary How to install the PROMNeT++ plug-in for Eclipse
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Contents =
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =

Although not strictly necessary to use PROMNeT++, the plug-in allows for direct translation inside the OMNeT++ IDE. This guide currently illustrates its installation procedure under a Windows environment; however, installation under any other environment should be very similar, if not practically equal.

= Method 1 - Installing the plugin via manual download =

  # Head over to the <a href="https://code.google.com/p/promnetpp/downloads/list">_Downloads_</a> page and download the latest _promnetpp-plugin-x.y.z.zip_ file, where _x.y.z_ corresponds to the latest version number. _Do not extract the zip file's contents, as it is unecessary._
  # Open the OMNeT++ IDE, then select Help|Install New Software...<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/InstallNewSoftware.png
  # Click on the _Add..._ button located to the right of the Available Software Sites dropdown box.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/AvailableSoftwareSites.png
  # We will be adding the plugin's "repository" directly from the zip archive. Do this by clicking on the _Archive..._ button, browsing to the zip file's location, and selecting it.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/ArchiveButton.png<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/BrowseToZipFile.png
  # The _Location_ field should now point to the directory where the archive selected in the previous step is located. It is always preceded by  _jar:file:_ and is delimited by an exclamation mark (!) at the end. An example of this would be _jar:file:/C:/tmp/promnetpp-plugin-0.0.1.zip!/_, as per the screenshot above. Click _OK_ to confirm.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/ArchiveLocationClickOK.png
  # If done correctly, an entry for the plugin should appear. Confirm that you want to install the plugin by marking the entry's checkbox and clicking on the _Next >_ button to proceed to the next page.
    * If no entry for the plugin shows up, try unchecking the box labelled _Group items by category_<br>.<br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/MarkTheCheckboxAndClickNext.png
  # You should be on the _Install Details_ page at this point, as illustrated below. For the vast majority (if not for all) of the users, there should be no need to actually check out the plugin's details. Proceed to the next page by, once again, clicking on the _Next >_ button.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/InstallDetailsClickNext.png
  # Review the enclosed license presented on the _Review Licenses_ page, if needed. Naturally, like any other plugin for Eclipse (or, in this case, the OMNeT++ IDE, which is Eclipse-based), you must accept the terms of the license agreement in order to install and use this plugin. Confirm that you want to install the plugin by clicking on _I accept the terms of the license agreement_, and clicking on the _Finish_ button thereafter.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/AcceptTermsAndClickFinish.png
  # In the event that a _Security Warning_ pops up, ignore it by clicking _OK_. This is to be expected, as the plug-in's content has not yet been signed (as of this guide's time of writing).
  # Restart the OMNeT++ IDE when prompted, and the plug-in will be ready for use.<br><br>https://promnetpp.googlecode.com/svn/media/RestartOmnetpp.png

= Method 2 - Installing the plugin via update site =
See [InstallingPROMNeTppPluginUpdateSite this article].

= Plug-in installed. Now how do I use it? =

See [UsingPROMNeTppPlugin this article] for instructions on how to use the plug-in.